{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11300\viewh11360\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Notes from meeting with I\'f1aki re: PMP\
22 June 2017\
\

\b Required formats for PMP data entry
\b0 \
\ul Climate (order matters!):\
\ulnone (1) Stn\
(2) latitude\
(3) year (must be 365 or 366 days for each year)\
(4) doy\
(4) t mean\
(5) t min\
(6) t max\
(7) photoperiod data!\
\
\ul Phenology data:\ulnone \
(1) Stn\
(2) pop/var\
(3) year\
(4) doy\
\
\ul Fit:\ulnone \
- Unique list of stations and years. \
\

\b Setup notes
\b0 \
Need TXT files for entry into PMP. \
Use underscores in names, no dots or periods. \
\

\b STN code\

\b0 - Use this for each experiment, but I\'f1aki says you can ignore year when setting these up (e..g, for fu13, we had two years of amb+1 treatments, they could be treated together as one station)\
- Must be numeric. \
\

\b Model
\b0 \
UNICHILL, then add photoperiod to Phase 2 (Triangular) \
\

\b Things to try
\b0 \
- Treat each species as a different variety and try multiple models (I\'f1aki says there is a automatic f(x) for this in PMP). \
- In Triangular f(x), or whichever model you use for photoperiod, you can select your photoperiod value from a drop-down menu. \
\

\b Miscellaneous:
\b0 \
- Modify optimization code (xml), change the Triangular f(x): Topt should be set between 0 and 24 \
- Number of repetitions is same as number of chains. \
- Running multiple models: Export -> Create a new file from scratch, then go back to PMP (rename your file), change the model, then Export -> Append. You need to then find PMP_console.exe and get into this from DOS prompt to run the resulting xml file. \
- Use stats manager to look at what the phases look like. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Which models to try? 
\b0 \
- Try the ones in Chuine et al. 2016, 
\i GCB
\i0 . \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 - Use some rational decisions (e.g., say we used mean temperatures only) \'85 and use several major models published in the last years \'85 try a few different chilling models?  See results on photoperiod here: Integrating interactive effects of chilling and photoperiod in phenological process-based models. A case study with two European tree species: Fagus sylvatica and Quercus petraea}